#  SUMO ML

## Machine Learning for Traffic Lights Control using Eclipse SUMO
***

The architecture developed is based on four main components:

- **Dataset generator**: uses TraCI to perform several Eclipse SUMO traffic simulations and creates a dataset which 
  will store all the relevant information from it.
- **Dataset visualizer**: allows showing different plots related to the dataset generated by the previous component.
- **SUMO file generators**: there are three different kind of generators, each one of them related to a specific task.
  - **Configuration files**: generates the required SUMO configuration in order to perform a simulation.
  - **Traffic type**: generates the different kinds of traffic type.
  - **Traffic light programs**: generates the different programs that will be available for the traffic lights in the 
    simulation.
- **Machine Learning component**: *coming soon...*

Note: the previous components are described below.

***
### Basic concepts

Before going deeper into the different components, we are going to describe some relevant concepts to understand this 
repository better.

#### What is Eclipse SUMO?

["Simulation of Urban MObility" (SUMO)](https://sumo.dlr.de/) is an open source,
highly portable, microscopic traffic simulation package designed to handle
large road networks and different modes of transport.

It is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/eclipse/sumo).

#### What is TraCI?

TraCI is the short term for "**Tra**ffic **C**ontrol **I**nterface". Giving access to a running road traffic simulation,
it allows retrieving values of simulated objects and manipulating their behavior "on-line".

TraCI uses a TCP based client/server architecture to provide access to sumo. Thereby, sumo acts as server. Please note, 
when sumo runs as a TraCI server, it runs until the client demands a simulation end.

Documentation is available on [Eclipse SUMO TraCI webpage](https://sumo.dlr.de/docs/TraCI.html).

***

### Dataset generator
***

*coming soon...*

### Dataset visualizer
***

*coming soon...*

### SUMO file generators
***

*coming soon...*

### Machine Learning component
***

*coming soon...*


### Usage
***

*coming soon...*

